Content Collections guide (#2141)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/content-collections.md

To configure schemas, create a `src/content/config.ts` file (`.js` and `.mjs` extensions are also supported). This file should:

1. Import the `defineCollection` and `z` utilities from `astro:content`. 
2. Define a `schema` for each collection.
2. Export a single `collections` object, with each object key corresponding to the collection's folder name.

For example, say you maintain two collections: one for release announcements and one for blog content. Your entries at `src/content/announcements` should include a `title` and `version`.  Your `src/content/engineering-blog/` collection entries should have a `title`, list of `tags`, and an optional `image` URL. 

You can specify each expected property in the `schema` field of `defineCollection`:

```ts
// src/content/config.ts
import { z, defineCollection } from 'astro:content';

const releases = defineCollection({
  schema: {
    title: z.string(),
    version: z.number(),
  },
});

const engineeringBlog = defineCollection({
  schema: {
    title: z.string(),
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
    image: z.string().optional(),
  },
});

export const collections = {

> 	releases: releases,

Reviewer: Er… I guess this is left over from some old draft review 😅 Not wrong though!

> 	releases: releases,

Reviewer 2: Ooh, I did want to bring up something from @bholmesdev stream here:

On the stream, this function was:

```
export const collections = {
	blog,
	cars,
}
```

Do we want to use `releases,` (instead of `releases: realeases,`)? What is going to be our recommended example in this case, where we don't have to rename the collection?

> 	releases: releases,

Author: Definitely `releases` over `releases: releases`!

> 	releases: releases,

Reviewer: So, in personal practice I would _always_ use the shorthand `{ releases }`. BUT in docs examples I tend to prefer the longhand just in case some users aren’t familiar with how the shorthand works and aren’t sure how to modify the example given their namings. But it’s a toss up basically.

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Content Collections (Experimental)
description: Content collections help organize your Markdown and type-check your frontmatter with schemas.
i18nReady: false
---

Content collections help organize your Markdown or MDX and type-check your frontmatter with schemas. Collections may be helpful if you:

- **Plan to use Markdown content in multiple areas** of your site (landing pages, footers, navigation, etc).

> - **Have a growing number of documents** to manage and fetch (e.g. a blog with 20+ posts).

Reviewer: I recommend we remove this unless we have can say which _features_ of Content Collections make more sense as document count grows/is “large”? Is it just that with larger collections, the benefits of frontmatter consistency grows? Or is their some performance gain?

```suggestion
```

> - **Have a growing number of documents** to manage and fetch (e.g. a blog with 20+ posts).

Reviewer 2: OK, since we can't find a bullet point that we're all confident on, let's remove. If there's a benefit that's really not otherwise expressed that is a solid explanation of why/when to use, we can always add one back in!

src/content/
│   # All blog posts have the same frontmatter properties
├── blog/
│   ├── columbia.md
│   ├── endeavour.md
│   └── enterprise.md
│   # All newsletters have the same frontmatter properties
└── newsletter/
    ├── week-1.md
    ├── week-2.md
    └── week-3.md
```

### Organizing with nested directories

Collections are **top-level folders** within `src/content/`. You cannot nest collections, but you may use nested directories within a collection to better organize a collection's content. All nested directories will share the same schema defined for the top-level collection.

For example, you can use this structure for internationalization:

```bash
src/content/
└── docs/
    │   # docs schema applies to all nested directories 👇
    ├── en/
    ├── es/
    └── ...
```

All nested directories will share the same schema defined for the top-level collection, if any (**docs** in this example).

## Defining a collection schema

Schemas are an optional way to enforce frontmatter types in a collection. Astro uses [Zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) to validate your frontmatter with schemas as [Zod objects](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod#objects).

> To configure schemas, create a `src/content/config.{js|mjs|ts}` file. This file should:

Reviewer: Ah right. Wasn’t sure on this one — we did remove something similar elsewhere IIRC.

My suggestion would be: pick **one** to be the recommended format (`.ts` _probably_?) and then mention you can also use the other two?

Something like this?

```suggestion
To configure schemas, create a `src/content/config.ts` file (`.js` and `.mjs` extensions are also supported). This file should:
```

> To configure schemas, create a `src/content/config.{js|mjs|ts}` file. This file should:

Reviewer 2: Ship it!  🥳

```astro /CollectionEntry([<.+>])?/
---
// src/components/BlogCard.astro
import type { CollectionEntry } from 'astro:content';

interface Props {
  // Get type of a `blog` collection entry
  post: CollectionEntry<'blog'>;
}

// `post.data` will match your collection schema
const { post } = Astro.props;
---
```

## Rendering content

You may need to render the contents of your Markdown and MDX entries as well. This is especially useful when generating pages from your content entries (see [Generating pages from content collections](#generating-pages-from-content-collections)), or adding post previews to your homepage.

You can retrieve a `<Content />` component for use in your Astro files with `renderEntry()`. For example, this page will render the contents of `content/announcements/welcome.md`:

```astro "renderEntry"
---
// src/pages/welcome-announcement.astro
import { renderEntry, getEntry } from 'astro:content';

const announcementPost = await getEntry('announcements', 'welcome.md');
const { Content } = await renderEntry(announcementPost);
---

<h1>{announcementPost.data.title}</h1>
<Content />

> ```

Author: Yep that sounds accurate, and I appreciate the subheading!

```astro "{ headings }"
---
import { getCollection, renderEntry } from 'astro:content';
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
---

{blogPosts.map(async (post) => {
  const { headings } = await renderEntry(post);
  const h1 = headings.find(h => h.depth === 1);
  return <p>{h1}</p>
})}
```

### Access injected frontmatter

Astro allows you to [inject frontmatter using remark or rehype plugins.](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-injecting-frontmatter) You can access these values using the `injectedFrontmatter` property from `renderEntry`:

```astro "{ injectedFrontmatter }"
---
import { getCollection, renderEntry } from 'astro:content';
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
---

{blogPosts.map(async (post) => {
  const { injectedFrontmatter } = await renderEntry(post);
  return <p>{post.data.title} — {injectedFrontmatter.readingTime}</p>
})}
```

Assuming `readingTime` was injected ([see our reading time example](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-calculate-reading-time)), it will be available on the `injectedFrontmatter` object.

<details>
<summary>**🙋 Why don't `getCollection` and `getEntry` contain these values?**</summary>

> The remark and rehype pipelines are only run when your content is **rendered.** This lets `renderEntry` access anything generated by these plugins like injected frontmatter. To stay performant, `getCollection` and `getEntry` do not have this capability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The remark and rehype pipelines are only run when your content is **rendered.** This lets `renderEntry()` access anything generated by these plugins like injected frontmatter. To stay performant, `getCollection()` and `getEntry()` do not have this capability.
```

</details>

## Generating pages from content collections

> You can create pages from your content collections using [dynamic routes](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes).
> 
> Say you have a `src/content/blog/` collection, and you want to map these entries to `/posts/*` URLs. You can create a `posts/[...slug].astro` route using `getStaticPaths` like so:
> 
> ```astro "{ slug: entry.slug }"
> ---
> // src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro
> import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
> export async function getStaticPaths() {
>   const blog = await getCollection('blog');
>   // Map collection entries to pages
>   return blog.map(entry => ({
>     // `entry.slug` is the filename of each blog post with `.md` removed
>     params: { slug: entry.slug },
>   }));
> }
> ---
> ```
> 
> This will generate routes for every entry in our collection, mapping each entry's slug to a URL. For example, an entry at `src/content/blog/hello-world.md` will have a slug of `hello-world`. Because this dynamic route is in `src/pages/posts/`, the final URL will be `/posts/hello-world`.
> 
> ### Generating pages with nested directories
> 
> If you have a collection with [nested directories](#organizing-with-nested-directories) (e.g. when organizing your content by locale) this will be reflected in each entry's `slug`. For example, the collection entry `blog/en/intro.md` will have a slug of `en/intro`.
> 
> Using [rest parameters in your dynamic routes](/en/core-concepts/routing/#rest-parameters) like in the example above supports mapping nested slugs out-of-the-box.

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
You can create pages based on your content collections using [dynamic routes](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes). 

Use `getCollection()` inside a [`getStaticPaths()`](/en/reference/api-reference/#getstaticpaths) function to query your content entries and provide the `slug` parameter for each page. 

For example, you can dynamically create a page for each entry in a `blog` collection, including nested directories, by creating a `.astro` page with a [rest parameter in its filename](/en/core-concepts/routing/#rest-parameters) to match file paths of any depth.

	```astro "{ slug: entry.slug }"
	---
	// src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro
	import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
	
	export async function getStaticPaths() {
	  const blog = await getCollection('blog');
	  return blog.map(entry => ({
	    params: { slug: entry.slug },
	  }));
	}
	---
	```

This will generate page routes for every entry in the `blog` collection, mapping each entry’s slug to a URL. For example, an entry at `src/content/blog/hello-world.md` will have a slug of `hello-world` and the collection entry `src/content/blog/en/intro.md` will have a slug of `en/intro`.

Because this dynamic route is in `src/pages/posts/`, the final URLs will be `/posts/hello-world/` and `/posts/en/intro/`.
``````
Since the code example included the rest parameter anyway, I think it's fine to not call out nested entries specifically in another heading. I think this also further establishes that it's *all* the same collection... and you get everything when you query by default. I like discussing the two together, side-by-side, because you don't actually *do* anything different when you have nested directories. So, I don't think we need to call attention to the differenes, as if they were different things to deal with.

> ### Rendering post contents
> 
> When generating pages with a dynamic route, you can pass each collection entry via `props` in your `getStaticPaths()` function. You can then retrieve the entry from `Astro.props` and use `renderEntry` to render its contents:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Rendering pages from content collections

When you pass each page route an entry via `props` in your `getStaticPaths()` function, you have access to the entry from `Astro.props`. You can use its frontmatter values via the `data` object and use `renderEntry()` to render its content via a `<Content /> component. You can optionally add type safety using the CollectionEntry utility.
```
I feel like we have an opportunity to shout out all the stuff happening below.

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Content Collections (Experimental)
description: Content collections help organize your Markdown and type-check your frontmatter with schemas.
i18nReady: false
---

Content collections help organize your Markdown or MDX and type-check your frontmatter with schemas. Collections may be helpful if you:

- **Plan to use Markdown content in multiple areas** of your site (landing pages, footers, navigation, etc).

> - **Have a non-trivial number of documents** to manage and fetch (e.g. a blog with 50+ posts).

Author: Understood. Thinking it over, I still prefer this edit I landed on in the previous thread:
```md
**Have a growing number of documents** to manage and fetch (e.g. a blog with 20+ posts).
```
"Growing number" should point to scaling challenges anyone can reach, no matter what size that may be. I'll resolve for now but let me know if this needs further discussion.

- **Want Astro to enforce frontmatter fields,** and fail if fields are missing (e.g. every blog post should have a title and description).

## The content directory

Astro provides a reserved directory for Markdown content, `src/content/`. This is where **collections** (folders) of Markdown/MDX **entries** (files) can be stored, with a single configuration file to define each collection's **schema** (frontmatter data types and shape).

## Collections

A collection is folder containing Markdown or MDX files whose frontmatter all share the same data shape and types.

Astro [provides built-in functions](#querying-content-collections) for querying your content data files by collection directory name. This means every content file in `src/content/` **must** belong to a collection directory.

> With this organization, you can retrieve a set of entries based on the collection name, and optionally enforce frontmatter types with a schema.

Author: Understood! I played with the wording a bit and landed on an edit I'd prefer. Give it a look in the latest!

Schemas are an optional way to enforce frontmatter types in a collection. Astro uses [Zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) to validate your frontmatter with schemas as [Zod objects](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod#objects).

To configure schemas, create a `src/content/config.{js|mjs|ts}` file. This file should:

1. Import the `defineCollection` and `z` utilities from `astro:content`. These are used to define a `schema` for each collection.
2. Export a `collections` object, with each object key corresponding to the collection's folder name.

For example, say you have a `src/content/engineering-blog` collection, where every entry should have a `title`, list of `tags`, and an optional `image` URL. You can specify each expected property like so:

```ts
// src/content/config.ts
import { z, defineCollection } from 'astro:content';

const engineeringBlog = defineCollection({
  schema: {
    title: z.string(),
    image: z.string().optional(),
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
  },
});

export const collections = {
  // Don't forget 'quotes' for collection names containing dashes
  'engineering-blog': engineeringBlog,
};
```

### Schema data types with Zod

> Markdown and MDX frontmatter can contain booleans, strings, numbers, objects, and arrays. Each frontmatter property must be listed in your schema object along with its data type.

Reviewer 3: Zod has only been mentioned in the headline. So at this point, a reader who doesn't know Zod may be confused what Zod actually is. A little introduction would help. Something like:

```suggestion
Markdown and MDX frontmatter can contain booleans, strings, numbers, objects, and arrays. Each frontmatter property must be listed in your schema object along with its data type. To define and validate this schema, we use a library called [zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod), which we use via the `z` import.
```

The following schema illustrates each of these data types in use:

```ts
import { z, defineCollection } from 'astro:content';

defineCollection({
  schema: {
    isDraft: z.boolean(),
    title: z.string(),
    sortOrder: z.number(),
    image: z.object({
      src: z.string(),
      alt: z.string(),
    }),
    tags: z.array(z.string()), // An array of strings
    footnote: z.string().optional(),
    author: z.string().default('Anonymous'),
    language: z.enum(['en', 'es']),
  }
})
```

### Advanced schema features

You can use all of Zod’s properties and methods with content schemas. This includes transforming a frontmatter value into another value, checking the shape of string values with built-in regexes, and more.

```ts
{
  // Allow only strings representing email addresses
  authorContact: z.string().email(),
  // Allow URL strings only (e.g. `https://example.com`)
  canonicalURL: z.string().url(),
  // Parse publishDate as a browser-standard `Date` object
  publishDate: z.string().transform(str => new Date(str)),
}
```

See [Zod’s documentation](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) for a complete list of features.

## Querying content collections

> Astro provides 2 functions to query collections:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Astro provides two functions to query collections:
```

### `getCollection()`

`getCollection()` returns multiple entries in a collection. It requires the name of a `collection` as a parameter.  By default, it returns all items in the collection.

It can also take a second, optional parameter: a filter function based on schema properties. This allows you to query for only some items in a collection based on `id`, `slug`, or frontmatter values via the `data` object.

```astro
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
// Get all `src/content/blog/` entries
const allBlogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
// Only return posts with `draft: true` in the frontmatter
const draftBlogPosts = await getCollection('blog', ({ data }) => {
  return data.draft === true;
});
---
```

### `getEntry()`

`getEntry()` is function that returns a specific entry in a collection by entry ID (file path relative to the collection). Both of these are required parameters.

```astro
---
import { getEntry } from 'astro:content';

const enterprise = await getEntry('blog', 'enterprise.md');
---
```

### Data returned from a collections query

`getCollection()` and `getEntry()` will return entries that include:

>  -  `id` - a unique ID using the file path relative to `src/content/[collection]`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - `id` - a unique ID using the file path relative to `src/content/[collection]`
```

 - `slug` - a URL-ready slug. Defaults to the ID without the file extension.
 - `data` - an object of frontmatter properties inferred from your collection schema. Defaults to `any` if no schema is configured.
 - `body` - a string containing the raw body of the Markdown or MDX document.

### Landing page example
 

> Given the following collection:

Author: I actually moved the schema sentence into the lead-in after removing that redundant file tree. Resolving since I think this sentence is covered by inline comments on the code sample?

```bash
src/content/
├── blog/
    ├── columbia.md
    ├── endeavour.md
    └── enterprise.md

> ```

Reviewer: Circling back to this: I actually think this file tree is superfluous and we can remove it.

> ...and the following schema:

Author: Refined and included 👍

  schema: {
    title: z.string(),
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
    status: z.enum(['draft', 'published']).default('draft'),
    publishedDate: z.string().transform((str) => new Date(str)),
  },
});
export const collections = { blog };
```

You can use `getCollection()` on an index page to retrieve each post's type-safe frontmatter and a `slug` to use for links:

```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

// Get all published blog posts
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog', ({ data }) => {
  return data.status === 'published';
});
---
<ul>
  {allBlogPosts.map(post => (
    <li>
      <a href={post.data.slug}>{post.data.title}</a>
      <time datetime={post.data.publishedDate.toISOString()}>
        {post.data.publishedDate.toDateString()}
      </time>
    </li>
  ))}
</ul>
```

:::tip 
Add a filtering function to `getCollections()` to return a subset of a collection's entries. For example, to fetch an entire subdirectory within a collection:

```astro
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
const enDocs = await getCollection('docs', ({ id }) => {
  return id.startsWith('en/');
});
---
```

> :::

Author: Yes, this was originally the "querying nested directories" example, but I agree the rephrasing made this unclear. I'd also prefer to bring the "querying nested directories" example back so we have an anchor link to send to people. I've already run into the need for this!

> :::

Author: update: moved under the `getCollection` section with a subheading, and refined the wording

<details>
<summary>**🙋 Why don't `getCollection` and `getEntry` contain these values?**</summary>

The remark and rehype pipelines are only run when your content is **rendered.** This lets `renderEntry` access anything generated by these plugins like injected frontmatter. To stay performant, `getCollection` and `getEntry` do not have this capability.

</details>

## Generating pages from content collections

You can create pages from your content collections using [dynamic routes](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes).

Say you have a `src/content/blog/` collection, and you want to map these entries to `/posts/*` URLs. You can create a `posts/[...slug].astro` route using `getStaticPaths` like so:

```astro "{ slug: entry.slug }"
---
// src/pages/posts/[...slug].astro
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const blog = await getCollection('blog');
  // Map collection entries to pages
  return blog.map(entry => ({
    // `entry.slug` is the filename of each blog post with `.md` removed
    params: { slug: entry.slug },
  }));
}
---
```

> This will generate routes for every entry in our collection, mapping each entry’s slug to a URL. For example, an entry at `src/content/blog/hello-world.md` will have a slug of `hello-world`. Because this dynamic route is in `src/pages/posts/`, the final URL will be `/posts/hello-world`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This will generate routes for every entry in our collection, mapping each entry's slug to a URL. For example, an entry at `src/content/blog/hello-world.md` will have a slug of `hello-world`. Because this dynamic route is in `src/pages/posts/`, the final URL will be `/posts/hello-world`.
```

### Generating pages with nested directories

> If you have a collection with [nested directories](#organizing-with-nested-directories) (e.g. when organising your content by locale) this will be reflected in each entry’s `slug`. For example, the collection entry `blog/en/intro.md` will have a slug of `en/intro`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have a collection with [nested directories](#organizing-with-nested-directories) (e.g. when organising your content by locale) this will be reflected in each entry's `slug`. For example, the collection entry `blog/en/intro.md` will have a slug of `en/intro`.
```

> If you have a collection with [nested directories](#organizing-with-nested-directories) (e.g. when organising your content by locale) this will be reflected in each entry's `slug`. For example, the collection entry `blog/en/intro.md` will have a slug of `en/intro`.

Reviewer: Oh dang, my English spelling is showing 😳 

```suggestion
If you have a collection with [nested directories](#organizing-with-nested-directories) (e.g. when organizing your content by locale) this will be reflected in each entry's `slug`. For example, the collection entry `blog/en/intro.md` will have a slug of `en/intro`.
```

For example, you can use a `getCollection()` query to filter and then display a list of links to all your published blog posts:
```astro
---
// src/pages/index.astro
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

// Get all published blog posts
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog', ({ data }) => {
  return data.status === 'published';
});
---
<ul>
  {allBlogPosts.map(post => (
    <li>
      <a href={post.data.slug}>{post.data.title}</a>
      <time datetime={post.data.publishedDate.toISOString()}>
        {post.data.publishedDate.toDateString()}
      </time>
    </li>
  ))}
</ul>
```

### Collection entry types

If a page or component uses content from a `getCollection()` or `getEntry()` query, you can use the `CollectionEntry` utility to type its props:

```astro /CollectionEntry([<.+>])?/
---
// src/components/BlogCard.astro
import type { CollectionEntry } from 'astro:content';

interface Props {
  // Get type of a `blog` collection entry
  post: CollectionEntry<'blog'>;
}

// `post.data` will match your collection schema
const { post } = Astro.props;
---
```

## Rendering page content from entries

> To render the content of your Markdown and MDX entries, use the `<Content />` component returned by the `render()` function. This allows you to generate pages from your content entries (see [Generating pages from content collections](#generating-pages-from-content-collections)), add post previews to your homepage, or display your content elsewhere on your site.

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
Use the provided `render()` function to generate pages from your content entries (see [Generating pages from content collections](#generating-pages-from-content-collections)), add post previews to your homepage, or display your content elsewhere on your site. With this function, you can access an entry's Markdown content, headings and any injected frontmatter.

```
const { Content, headings, injectedFrontmatter } = entry.render();
```
``````

@delucis Were you thinking of something like this? If so, I might suggest we change the headings to look maybe like:

## Rendering entries (with `render()`??)
### Accessing content from `render()`
### Accessing headings from `render()`
### Accessing injected frontmatter from `render()`

(Proposing those perhaps less-than-ideal headings for now because I think they'll distinguish themselves enough as Algolia search terms. We can think about better headings as we prepare for this to come out of experimental. But, at least it's very clear right now.

Reviewer: Yes, exactly, something like that 👍

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Content Collections (Experimental)
description: Content collections help organize your Markdown and type-check your frontmatter with schemas.
i18nReady: false
---

Content collections help organize your Markdown or MDX and type-check your frontmatter with schemas. Collections may be helpful if you:

- **Plan to use Markdown content in multiple areas** of your site (landing pages, footers, navigation, etc).
- **Want Astro to enforce frontmatter fields,** and fail if fields are missing (e.g. every blog post should have a title and description).

## Getting started

Content Collections are experimental. To enable this feature, set the `experimental.contentCollections` flag in your Astro config:

```js
// astro.config.mjs
import { defineConfig } from 'astro';

export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
    contentCollections: true,
  },
});
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion

You will also need to update `tsconfig.json`. Add `"strictNullChecks": true` under `compilerOptions`.

```json title="tsconfig.json" {4}
{
  "extends": "astro/tsconfigs/base"
  "compilerOptions": {
      "strictNullChecks": true
    },
}
```

``````
Edit as desired!

Reviewer: Spaces is good 👍

```astro "{ headings }"
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
---

{blogPosts.map(async (post) => {
  const { headings } = await post.render();
  const h1 = headings.find(h => h.depth === 1);
  return <p>{h1}</p>
})}
```

### Access injected frontmatter from `render()`

Astro allows you to [inject frontmatter using remark or rehype plugins.](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-injecting-frontmatter) You can access these values using the `injectedFrontmatter` property from `render()`:

```astro "{ injectedFrontmatter }"
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
---

{blogPosts.map(async (post) => {
  const { injectedFrontmatter } = await post.render();
  return <p>{post.data.title} — {injectedFrontmatter.readingTime}</p>
})}
```

Assuming `readingTime` was injected ([see our reading time example](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-calculate-reading-time)), it will be available on the `injectedFrontmatter` object.

<details>

> <summary>**🙋 Why don't `getCollection` and `getEntry` contain these values?**</summary>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<summary>**🙋 Why don't `getCollection()` and `getEntry()` contain these values?**</summary>
```

- **Collection:** a set of data that share a common schema. In this case, a set of Markdown and MDX files.
- **Entry:** A piece of data belonging to a given collection. In this case, a single Markdown or MDX file.

## The content directory

Content Collections introduce a new, reserved directory that Astro will manage for you: `src/content/`. This directory is where all content collections and frontmatter schemas live.

## Creating a collection

All entries in `src/content/` **must** be nested in a "collection" directory. This allows you to retrieve a collection of entries based on the directory name, and optionally enforce frontmatter types with a schema. In this way, collections are a bit like database tables or content types in a CMS: they help you group similar kinds of content together.

What this looks like in practice:

```bash "newsletter/" "blog/"
src/content/
│   # All blog posts have the same frontmatter properties
├── blog/
│   ├── columbia.md
│   ├── endeavour.md
│   └── enterprise.md
│   # All newsletters have the same frontmatter properties
└── newsletter/
    ├── week-1.md
    ├── week-2.md
    └── week-3.md

> ```

Author: Hm, this redraft feels a bit wordy to me. I'll take a stab at refining from here

const blog = defineCollection({
  schema: {
    title: z.string(),
    slug: z.string(),
    image: z.string().optional(),
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
  },
});

export const collections = { blog };
```

`await getCollection('blog')` will return entries of the following type, with the type of `data` inferred from your schema:

```ts
{
  // Unique ID using file path relative to src/content/[collection]
  // Ex. for content/[collection]/file-1.md...
  id: 'file-1.md' | 'file-2.md' | ...;
	// URL-ready slug using ID with file extension stripped
  // Ex. for content/[collection]/file-1.md...
	slug: 'file-1' | 'file-2' | ...;
  // Inferred from collection schema
  // Defaults to `any` if no schema is configured
  data: {
    title: string;
    slug: string;
    image?: string;
    tags: string[];
  };
  // Raw body of the Markdown or MDX document
  body: string;
}
```

:::note
The `body` is the *raw* content of the file. This ensures builds remain performant by avoiding expensive rendering pipelines. See [**Rendering content**](#rendering-content-with-renderentry) to compile this body to a `Content` component for use in your Astro files.
:::

> ### Getting from nested directories
> 
> When getting a collection that includes files in nested directories, the result will be a flat array of entries. The nested directory structure will be reflected in each entry’s `id`.
> 
> ```ts
> const docsEntries = await getCollection('docs');
> console.log(docsEntries)
> /*
> [
>   { id: 'en/getting-started.md', slug: 'en/getting-started', data: {...} },
>   { id: 'en/structure.md', slug: 'en/structure', data: {...} },
>   { id: 'es/getting-started.md', slug: 'es/getting-started', data: {...} },
>   { id: 'es/structure.md', slug: 'es/structure', data: {...} },
>   ...
> ]
> */
> ```
> 
> To fetch from a subdirectory within a collection, you can use `getCollection` with a filter:
> 
> ```astro
> ---
> import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';
> 
> const enDocs = await getCollection('docs', ({ id }) => {
>   // Where `id` is 'en/page-1.md' | 'en/page-2.md' | ...
>   return id.startsWith('en/');
> });
> ---
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Data returned from a collections query

`getCollection()` and `getEntry()` will return an array of entries (or a single entry) that include:

 -  `id` - a unique ID using the file path relative to `src/content/[collection]`.
 - `slug` - the URL-ready slug using ID without file extension.
 - `data` - an object of your frontmatter properties inferred from the collection schema. (Defaults to `any` if no schema is configured.)
 - `body` - a string containing the raw body of the Markdown or MDX document.

```ts
const docsEntries = await getCollection('docs');
console.log(docsEntries)
/*
[
  { id: 'columbia.md', slug: 'columbia', data: {...}, body: '...' },
  { id: 'endeavour.md', slug: 'endeavour', data: {...}, body: '...'  },
  { id: 'enterprise.md', slug: 'enterprise', data: {...}, body: '...' }
]
*/
```
:::note
The `body` is the *raw* content of the file. This ensures builds remain performant by avoiding expensive rendering pipelines. See [**Rendering content**](#rendering-content-with-renderentry) to compile this body to a `<Content />` component for use in your Astro files.
:::

Add a filtering function as a second parameter to `getCollections()` allows you to return a subset of a collection's entries. For example, to fetch an entire subdirectory within a collection:

```astro
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

const enDocs = await getCollection('docs', ({ id }) => {
  return id.startsWith('en/');
});
---
```
```ts
console.log(enDocs)
/*
[
  { id: 'en/getting-started.md', slug: 'en/getting-started', data: {...}, body: '...'  },
  { id: 'en/structure.md', slug: 'en/structure', data: {...}, body: '...'  },
  { id: 'es/getting-started.md', slug: 'es/getting-started', data: {...}, body: '...'  },
  { id: 'es/structure.md', slug: 'es/structure', data: {...}, body: '...'  },
  ...
]
*/
```
OK, this got long and icky, so I hope the formatting makes sense. But, I was thining of something like this to replace the "return value" that's going to end up in API reference, and combining it with the following section, which I'm not sure needs to be its own section? It's just another example of filtering, albeit a handy example, so included here under querying is fine I think.

``````

Author: I love everything about this ❤️

Say you have a `docs` collection subdivided by locale like so:

```bash
src/content/
└── docs/
    ├── en/
    │   └── getting-started.md
    └── es/
        └── getting-started.md
```

You may want all `docs/` entries to be mapped onto pages, with those nested directories respected as nested URLs. You can do the following with `getStaticPaths`:

```astro "{ slug: entry.slug }"
---
// src/pages/docs/[...slug].astro
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

export async function getStaticPaths() {
	const blog = await getCollection('docs');
  // Map collection entries to pages
	return blog.map(entry => ({
    // Where `entry.slug` is `en/getting-started` | `es/getting-started` | ...
		params: { slug: entry.slug },
	}));
}
---
```

This will generate routes for every entry in our collection, mapping each entry slug (a path relative to `src/content/docs/`) to a URL. This example will generate:
- `/docs/en/getting-started`
- `/docs/es/getting-started`

> ...and so on.

Author: Note: Sarah's edit below addresses the ID slug explanation better! This was loosely explained under "Return Type," but I definitely agree with her change more 👍

> ...and so on.

Author: I also had the spicy idea to leave slug customization to API reference only. Not sure if that warrants a callout in one of the examples? And if so, which one?

> ...and so on.

Author: Alright, used the example above with small wording tweaks. I have a note on custom slugs we can revisit in the API reference PR!

### Rendering post contents

You can pass each entry via `props` and use `renderEntry` to render its contents:

```astro "renderEntry" "props: entry"
---

> // src/pages/docs/[...slug].astro

Author: @delucis Ah, I noticed I flip-flopped blog into part 2 of the explainer. Everything should read as docs, so I'm closing this and flipping `blog` to `docs` anywhere that happened.

import { getCollection, renderEntry } from 'astro:content';

export async function getStaticPaths() {
	const blog = await getCollection('docs');
	return blog.map(entry => ({
    // Pass blog entry as props
		params: { slug: entry.slug, props: entry },
	}));
}

const entry = Astro.props;
const { Content } = await renderEntry(entry);
---

<h1>{entry.data.title}</h1>
<Content />
```

To add type safety, you can use the `CollectionEntry` utility:

```astro ins={14} "CollectionEntry,"
---
// src/pages/docs/[...slug].astro
import { CollectionEntry, getCollection, renderEntry } from 'astro:content';

export async function getStaticPaths() {
	const blog = await getCollection('docs');
	return blog.map(entry => ({
    // Pass blog entry as props
		params: { slug: entry.slug, props: entry },
	}));
}

// Get type of a `docs` entry
type Props = CollectionEntry<'docs'>;

const entry = Astro.props;
const { Content } = await renderEntry(entry);
---

<h1>{entry.data.title}</h1>
<Content />

> ```

Author: Or, what if we just throw the type definition in the example just above this? Does docs include typescript in-passing without a separate section?

> ```

Author: Planning to add the type to the previous example with a comment for brevity. The API reference will cover the rest!

> ## Landing page example

Author: Included a simpler landing page example under return type per Sarah's edit. Removing this section!

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Content Collections (Experimental)
description: Content collections help organize your Markdown and type-check your frontmatter with schemas.
i18nReady: false
---

Content collections help organize your Markdown or MDX and type-check your frontmatter with schemas. You may reach for collections if you:
- **Plan to use content in multiple areas** of your site (landing pages, footers, navigation, etc).
- **Have a non-trivial number of documents** to manage and fetch (example: a blog with 50+ posts).

> - **Want to enforce frontmatter fields,** and fail if fields are missing (example: every blog post should have a title and description).

Author: I'm good with the secon edit, but I'll push back on "large number of documents" per Erika's comment. 50+ posts is considered small to some developers, and medium to others. I think "non-trivial" covers the general idea that once you notice how many documents you have, collections are helpful!

> - **Want to enforce frontmatter fields,** and fail if fields are missing (example: every blog post should have a title and description).

Reviewer 2: I will once again push back on "non-trival." It's not great language for docs. Can we come up with something that is more straight-forward English, less vague, and translates to multiple languages more easily?

Some options could include:

> Start to have trouble managing your documents

> Discover that querying and managing all documents is difficult

Maybe something along those lines? Any thoughts?

> - **Want to enforce frontmatter fields,** and fail if fields are missing (example: every blog post should have a title and description).

Author: Ah, or better “Have a growing number of documents.” Implies you have more to manage without judging the size that’s right for switching

> - **Want to enforce frontmatter fields,** and fail if fields are missing (example: every blog post should have a title and description).

Reviewer: Ben, can you say which _features_ of Content Collections make more sense as document count grows/is “large”? Is it just that with larger collections, the benefits of frontmatter consistency grows? Or is their some performance gain?

We seem to be having trouble pinning this bullet point down and I wonder if it’s because we’re not actually clear of the benefits for this specific use case.

## Glossary

> We'll be using "schema," "collection," and "entry" throughout this guide. Let's define these terms:

Author: 😢

- **Schema:** the shape and type you expect your data to have. In this case, frontmatter data.
- **Collection:** a set of data that share a common schema. In this case, a set of Markdown and MDX files.

> - **Entry:** A piece of data belonging to a given collection. In this case, a single Markdown or MDX file.

Author: Does this mean "kill glossary?"

## The content directory

> Content Collections introduce a new, reserved directory that Astro will manage for you: `src/content/`. This directory is where all content collections and frontmatter schemas live.

Author: Took the suggestion with _slight_ tweaks to break up the run-on. Just pushed up!

## Creating a collection

All entries in `src/content/` **must** be nested in a "collection" directory. This allows you to retrieve a collection of entries based on the directory name, and optionally enforce frontmatter types with a schema. In this way, collections are a bit like database tables or content types in a CMS: they help you group similar kinds of content together.

What this looks like in practice:

> ```bash "newsletter/" "blog/"
> src/content/
>   # All newsletters have the same frontmatter properties
>   newsletter/
>     week-1.md
>     week-2.md
>     week-3.md
>   # All blog posts have the same frontmatter properties
>   blog/
>     columbia.md
>     enterprise.md
>     endeavour.md
> ```

Reviewer: Circling back now I’ve realised this:

````suggestion
```bash "newsletter/" "blog/"
src/content/
│   # All blog posts have the same frontmatter properties
├── blog/
│   ├── columbia.md
│   ├── endeavour.md
│   └── enterprise.md
│   # All newsletters have the same frontmatter properties
└── newsletter/
    ├── week-1.md
    ├── week-2.md
    └── week-3.md
```
````

### Organizing with nested directories

Collections are considered **one level deep**, so you cannot nest collections (or collection schemas) within other collections. However, we do allow nested directories to better organize your content. This is vital for certain use cases like internationalization:

```bash

> src/content/
>   docs/
>     # docs schema applies to all nested directories 👇
>     en/
>     es/
>     ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
src/content/
└── docs/
    │   # docs schema applies to all nested directories 👇
    ├── en/
    ├── es/
    └── ...
```

```

All nested directories will share the same schema defined for the top-level collection, if any (**docs** in this example).

See [getting from nested directories](#getting-from-nested-directories) to see how folders are treated when retrieving collections.

## Defining a collection schema

Schemas are an optional way to enforce frontmatter types in a collection. To configure schemas, you can create a `src/content/config.{js|mjs|ts}` file. This file should:

1. `export` a `collections` object, with each object key corresponding to the collection's folder name. We will offer a `defineCollection` utility [similar to the `defineConfig` helper](/en/guides/configuring-astro/#the-astro-config-file) (see example below).

> 2. Use a [Zod object](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod#objects) to define schema properties. The `z` utility will be built-in and exposed by `astro:content`.

Author: So hot take: I really liked Chris' edit here 😅 I do prefer how you switched the `collections` export to (2) instead of (1) so I'll use that. I also took his advice to truncate that dashes `-` example into the main example to keep things simple. Let me know if there's further changes you'd like on the latest!

  canonicalURL: z.string().url(),
  // parse publishDate as a browser-standard Date object
  // ex. "Bananaday" would fail to parse, but "2022-10-10" would pass
  publishDate: z.string().transform(str => new Date(str)),
}
```

You can [browse Zod's documentation](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) for a complete rundown of features.

### Zod quick reference

Markdown and MDX frontmatter can contain strings, booleans, numbers, objects, and arrays. Here's a quick cheatsheet for each of those:

```ts
import { z, defineCollection } from 'astro:content';

defineCollection({
  schema: {
    // Boolean
    isDraft: z.boolean(),
    // String
    title: z.string(),
    // Number
    sortOrder: z.number(),
    // Optional - Extend any type with `.optional()`
    footnote: z.string().optional(),
    // Default value - Extend any type with `.default(value)`
    author: z.string().default('Anonymous'),
    // Array
    // Note: array(...) is a wrapper around the type of each element
    // Ex. array of strings:
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
    // Enum
    language: z.enum(['en', 'es']),
    // Object
    image: z.object({
      src: z.string(),
      alt: z.string(),
    }),
  }
})
```

> See the [**Why Zod?** example](#why-zod) above for more Zod-specific features like transforms.

Author: Looks nice! I'll push back a _little_ on people searching for schemas specifically. I definitely expect some users to be googling "zod please help," so I used the Zod Quick Reference header to capture that. I'll play with working that idea into the above edit. Definitely like it overall!

> See the [**Why Zod?** example](#why-zod) above for more Zod-specific features like transforms.

Author: Done! Slight wording tweaks and added "with zod" to the section header 👍

## Getting content

Astro provides 2 functions to query collections:

- `getCollection` — get all entries in a collection, or based on a filter

> - `getEntry` — get a specific entry in a collection by file name

Author: Done! Also split the code snippets under each heading for clarity

})}
```

### Access injected frontmatter

Astro allows you to [inject frontmatter using remark or rehype plugins.](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-injecting-frontmatter) You can access these values using the `injectedFrontmatter` property from `renderEntry`:

```astro "{ injectedFrontmatter }"
---
import { getCollection, renderEntry } from 'astro:content';
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
---

{blogPosts.map(async (post) => {
  const { injectedFrontmatter } = await renderEntry(post);
  return <p>{post.data.title} — {injectedFrontmatter.readingTime}</p>
})}
```

Assuming `readingTime` was injected ([see our reading time example](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-calculate-reading-time)), it will be available on the `injectedFrontmatter` object.

<details>
<summary>**🙋 Why don't `getCollection` and `getEntry` contain these values?**</summary>

The remark and rehype pipelines are only run when your content is **rendered.** This lets `renderEntry` access anything generated by these plugins like injected frontmatter. To stay performant, `getCollection` and `getEntry` do not have this capability.

</details>

## Generating pages from content collections

> You might map content collections to live URLs on your site. This should be  similar to globbing directories outside of `src/pages/`, [using `getStaticPaths` to generate routes dynamically.](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes)

Reviewer: Not completely sold on keeping that last comparison bit but I think this is more goal focused: you can do this thing, here’s how, btw might be a bit like this other thing you once did.

I think the comparison might feel relevant today but in 6 months might already be dated, so could be worth saving for a announcement blog post for folks in the know.

```suggestion
You can create pages based on your content collections using [dynamic routes](/en/core-concepts/routing/#dynamic-routes). Use `getCollection()` inside your [`getStaticPaths()`](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/api-reference/#getstaticpaths) function to build routes based on your collections. If you have used `Astro.glob()` to generate a dynamic route before, this might feel familiar.
```

Author: For an experimental release, I think most people will come with `Astro.glob` experience. The comparison is really helpful!

Say you have a `docs` collection subdivided by locale like so:

> ```bash
> src/content/
> 	docs/
> 		en/
> 			getting-started.md
> 			...
> 		es/
> 			getting-started.md
> 			...
> ```

Reviewer: We use `tree`-style directory structures elsewhere in docs so should probably be consistent:

````suggestion
```bash
src/content/
└── docs/
    ├── en/
    │   └── getting-started.md
    └── es/
        └── getting-started.md
```
````

---
layout: ~/layouts/MainLayout.astro
title: Content Collections (Experimental)
description: Content collections help organize your Markdown and type-check your frontmatter with schemas.
i18nReady: false
---

Content collections help organize your Markdown or MDX and type-check your frontmatter with schemas. You may reach for collections if you:

> - **Have a medium-to-large number of documents** to manage and fetch (example: a blog with 50+ posts).

Reviewer 4: `medium-to-large` and `50+ posts` in the same sentence feels weird. For a blog it kinda makes sense, as 50 posts is a fair amount for most blogs, but for users that have anything else that is smaller than blog posts, 50 posts is absurdly small

Author: Fair enough! Everyone has a different definition of "medium." How about "non-trivial number of posts?"

- **Have a non-trivial number of documents** to manage and fetch (example: a blog with 50+ posts).
- **Want to enforce frontmatter fields,** and fail if fields are missing (example: every blog post should have a title and description).

## Glossary

We'll be using "schema," "collection," and "entry" throughout this guide. Let's define these terms:

- **Schema:** a way to codify the "structure" of your data. In this case, frontmatter data
- **Collection:** a set of data that share a common schema. In this case, Markdown and MDX files
- **Entry:** A piece of data (Markdown or MDX file) belonging to a given collection

## The content directory

> Content Collections introduce a new, reserved directory for Astro to manage: `{srcDir}/content/`. This directory is where all content collections and frontmatter schemas live.

Author: Understood on this, but I want to include `srcDir` somewhere in-passing in case someone asks. Good to rename until that's requested!

## Creating a collection

> All entries in `{srcDir}/content/` **must** be nested in a "collection" directory. This allows you to retrieve a collection of entries based on the directory name, and optionally enforce frontmatter types with a schema. Think of collections like database tables or content types in a CMS.

Author: Love this edit. Feels more approachable!

  blog/
    columbia.md
    enterprise.md
    endeavour.md
```

### Organizing with nested directories

Collections are considered **one level deep**, so you cannot nest collections (or collection schemas) within other collections. However, we do allow nested directories to better organize your content. This is vital for certain use cases like internationalization:

```bash
src/content/
  docs/
    # docs schema applies to all nested directories 👇
    en/
    es/
    ...
```

All nested directories will share the same schema defined for the top-level collection, if any (**docs** in this example).

See [getting from nested directories](#getting-from-nested-directories) to see how folders are treated when retrieving collections.

## Adding a schema

Schemas are an optional way to enforce frontmatter types in a collection. To configure schemas, you can create a `src/content/config.{js|mjs|ts}` file. This file should:

1. `export` a `collections` object, with each object key corresponding to the collection's folder name. We will offer a `defineCollection` utility [similar to the `defineConfig` helper](/en/guides/configuring-astro/#the-astro-config-file) (see example below).

> 2. Use a [Zod object](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod#objects) to define schema properties. The `z` utility will be built-in and exposed by `astro:content`.

Author: Ah, I do like the info restructuring here, but the wording feels a bit off in that revision. Making a note to redraft

```ts
// src/content/config.ts
import { z, defineCollection } from 'astro:content';

const blog = defineCollection({
  schema: {
    title: z.string(),
    slug: z.string(),
    image: z.string().optional(),
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
  },
});

export const collections = { blog };
```

:::tip
Browse the [**Zod quick reference**](#zod-quick-reference) for a rundown on the basics!
:::

You can also include dashes `-` in your collection name using a string as the key. For example, to configure the collection `src/content/my-newsletter`, you may do the following:

```ts
const myNewsletter = defineCollection({...});

export const collections = { 'my-newsletter': myNewsletter };
```

### Why Zod?

We chose [Zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) since it offers key benefits over plain TypeScript types. Namely:
- specifying default values for optional fields using `.default()`
- checking the *shape* of string values with built-in regexes, like `.url()` for URLs and `.email()` for emails

> - transforming a frontmatter value into another value, like parsing a publish date to [a `Date` object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date).

Author: Ah, part of me is still in unsure of reception to Zod here. Since this is the first introduction of Zod in the project and in our docs, I felt a "why Zod" was worth the call-out. However, I noticed the quick reference coming after this instead of before felt awkward. We could change this to "Zod-specific features" and move it afterwards.

}
```

You can [browse Zod's documentation](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) for a complete rundown of features.

### Zod quick reference

Frontmatter YAML covers strings, booleans, numbers, objects, and arrays. Here's a quick cheatsheet for each of those:

```ts
import { z, defineCollection } from 'astro:content';

defineCollection({
  schema: {
    // Boolean
    isDraft: z.boolean(),
    // String
    title: z.string(),
    // Number
    sortOrder: z.number(),
    // Optional - Extend any type with `.optional()`
    footnote: z.string().optional(),
    // Default value - Extend any type with `.default(value)`
    author: z.string().default('Anonymous'),
    // Array
    // Note: array(...) is a wrapper around the type of each element
    // Ex. array of strings:
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
    // Enum
    language: z.enum(['en', 'es']),
    // Object
    image: z.object({
      src: z.string(),
      alt: z.string(),
    }),
  }
})
```

See the [**Why Zod?** example](#why-zod) above for more Zod-specific features like transforms.

## Getting content

Astro provides 2 functions to query collections:

- `getCollection` - get all entries in a collection, or based on a filter

> - `getEntry` - get a specific entry in a collection by file name

Author: I have no clue what this changes but sure

> - `getEntry` - get a specific entry in a collection by file name

Reviewer: Oh, sorry! It’s “—” vs “-” but that doesn’t render well in a monospace font.

The former is for separating phrases etc. the latter is for joining adjectives, splitting words across lines etc. — <https://practicaltypography.com/hyphens-and-dashes.html>

These functions will have typed based on collections that exist. In other words, `getCollection('banana')` will raise a type error if there is no `src/content/banana/`.

```astro
---
import { getCollection, getEntry } from 'astro:content';
// Get all `blog` entries
const allBlogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
// Filter blog posts by entry properties
const draftBlogPosts = await getCollection('blog', ({ id, slug, data }) => {
  return data.status === 'draft';
});
// Get a specific blog post by file name
const enterprise = await getEntry('blog', 'enterprise.md');
---
```

> ### Return type

Author: Note: will likely move this to API reference when that PR is ready

Author: Update: you know what? I agree this is pretty useful. I simplified the schema a bit and tweaked some wording, and I'm happy to keep as-is. Flagging for review @delucis

const blog = defineCollection({
  schema: {
    title: z.string(),
    slug: z.string(),
    image: z.string().optional(),
    tags: z.array(z.string()),
  },
});

export const collections = { blog };
```

`await getCollection('blog')` will return entries of the following type, with the type of `data` inferred from your schema:

```ts
{
  // Unique ID using file path relative to src/content/[collection]
  // Ex. for content/[collection]/file-1.md...
  id: 'file-1.md' | 'file-2.md' | ...;
	// URL-ready slug using ID with file extension stripped
  // Ex. for content/[collection]/file-1.md...
	slug: 'file-1' | 'file-2' | ...;
  // Inferred from collection schema
  // Defaults to `any` if no schema is configured
  data: {
    title: string;
    slug: string;
    image?: string;
    tags: string[];
  };
  // Raw body of the Markdown or MDX document
  body: string;
}
```

:::note
The `body` is the *raw* content of the file. This ensures builds remain performant by avoiding expensive rendering pipelines. See [**Rendering content**](#rendering-content-with-renderentry) to compile this body to a `Content` component for use in your Astro files.
:::

### Getting from nested directories

> [As noted earlier](#organizing-with-nested-directories), you may organize entries into directories as well. The result will **still be a flat array** when getting a collection via `getCollection`, with the nested directory reflected in an entry’s `id`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When getting a collection that includes files in nested directories, the result will be a flat array of entries. The nested directory structure will be reflected in each entry’s `id`.
```

```ts
const docsEntries = await getCollection('docs');
console.log(docsEntries)
/*
[
	{ id: 'en/getting-started.md', slug: 'en/getting-started', data: {...} },
	{ id: 'en/structure.md', slug: 'en/structure', data: {...} },
	{ id: 'es/getting-started.md', slug: 'es/getting-started', data: {...} },
	{ id: 'es/structure.md', slug: 'es/structure', data: {...} },
	...
]
*/
```

To fetch from a specific directory **within** a collection, Astro recommends `getCollection` with a filter:

```astro
---
import { getCollection } from 'astro:content';

const enDocs = await getCollection('docs', ({ id }) => {
  // Where `id` is 'en/page-1.md' | 'en/page-2.md' | ...

>   return id.startsWith('en');

Author: Yep, they should be! Good catch

});
---
```

## Rendering content with `renderEntry`

> You may need to render the contents of these Markdown and MDX entries as well. This is especially useful when generating live URLs from your content entries (see [Generating pages from content collections](#generating-pages-from-content-collections)). 

Author: I just meant pages. Not sure why I said "live" there!

You can retrieve a `Content` component for use in your Astro files with `renderEntry`:

```astro "renderEntry"
---
import { renderEntry, getEntry } from 'astro:content';

const announcementPost = await getEntry('announcements', 'welcome.md');
// Pass a `getEntry` result or `getCollection` array item:
const { Content } = await renderEntry(announcementPost);
// Or pass a valid ID and collection name individually:
const { Content } = await renderEntry({
  id: announcementPost.id,
  collection: announcementPost.collection,

> });

Author: There is! It's more clear when using `getStaticPaths`, where you may destructure individual properties for use as props instead of passing down the entire entry. I agree this doesn't show the need very clearly though. I vote axing this and leaving it to the API reference 👍

---

<h1>{announcementPost.data.title}</h1>
<Content />
```

This example will render the contents of `content/announcements/welcome.md`.

### Access content headings

Astro [generates a list of headings](/en/guides/markdown-content/#exported-properties) for Markdown and MDX documents. You can access this list using the `headings` property from `renderEntry`:

```astro "{ headings }"
---
import { getCollection, renderEntry } from 'astro:content';
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
---

{blogPosts.map(async (post) => {
  const { headings } = await renderEntry(post);
  const h1 = headings.find(h => h.depth === 1);
  return <p>{h1}</p>
})}
```

### Access injected frontmatter

Astro allows you to [inject frontmatter using remark or rehype plugins.](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-injecting-frontmatter) You can access these values using the `injectedFrontmatter` property from `renderEntry`:

```astro "{ injectedFrontmatter }"
---
import { getCollection, renderEntry } from 'astro:content';
const blogPosts = await getCollection('blog');
---

{blogPosts.map(async (post) => {
  const { injectedFrontmatter } = await renderEntry(post);

>   const { readingTime } = injectedFrontmatter;
>   return <p>{post.data.title} - {readingTime}</p>

Reviewer: I’d suggest avoiding the extra indirection here for clarity:

```suggestion
  return <p>{post.data.title} — {injectedFrontmatter.readingTime}</p>
```

})}
```

> Assuming `readingTime` was injected ([see our reading time example](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-calculate-reading-time)), all properties should be available here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming `readingTime` was injected ([see our reading time example](/en/guides/markdown-content/#example-calculate-reading-time)), it will be available on the `injectedFrontmatter` object.
```

## Rendering page content from entries

> To render the content of your Markdown and MDX entries, use the `<Content />` component returned by the `render()` function. This allows you to generate pages from your content entries (see [Generating pages from content collections](#generating-pages-from-content-collections)), add post previews to your homepage, or display your content elsewhere on your site.

Reviewer: Nice benefit of this API change: it’s easier to associate `render()` directly with a single entry in writing:

```suggestion
To render the content of a Markdown or MDX entry, use the `<Content />` component returned by its `render()` function. This allows you to generate pages from your content entries (see [Generating pages from content collections](#generating-pages-from-content-collections)), add post previews to your homepage, or display your content elsewhere on your site.
```

### `render()`

> `render()` is an extension function every content collection entry that returns a `<Content />` component. This contains the rendered content of the Markdown or MDX file. 

Reviewer: Think this got a bit mangled in the edit. Here’s my suggested fix:

```suggestion
Every content collection entry includes a `render()` function that returns a `<Content />` component. This component will render the content of the Markdown or MDX file. 
```

Reviewer 2: This looks good to me Chris. 

*If* we rework the paragraph above to more generically describe `render()` and each of these level 3 headings are the three things you can access with it, then this could be very slightly tweaked to sound less like it's an introduction of the `render()` function itself, and hit `<Content />` as one of the things you can use the aforementioned `render()` function to access. But, non-blocking either way! Could totally merge like this.
